One of the things that I
want to just point out, and
I feel pretty good about everything that
we've accomplished up to this point.
We can write home about this, but
what you will notice is
that these events here or
these methods all, find,
create, update, delete.
And more importantly,
if we go down into the reducer,
select, load, create update,
these are all part of the template,
they're static.
And in a lot of cases, this is fine,
this is a good starting point.
But when we get into or the extension of
this is true Domain-Driven Design, and
not to go off into something that is worth
an entire workshop in and unto itself.
The point of Domain-Driven Design
is to establish,
to work with stakeholders and
domain experts,
to, one, understand how the domain
is modeled, how it works.
And to tease out a set of semantics that
you can use to create more meaningful
communication with the stakeholders,
domain experts, etc.
And so if you pick up a book
on Domain-Driven Development,
invariably, probably within
the first two or three chapters,
you are going to run up against
this concept of event storming.
And so what they do or how this process
works is you sit down with a domain
expert and you say, all right,
let's talk about how this works.
What are the actors in this particular
domain, snd what do they do?
And your idea or
the idea is to uncover the events, so
events storming,
that these actors within this domain,
that they essentially emit or
participate in.
So that you can start to
develop essentially these user
interaction flows and
you can understand how a user or
an actor can interact with a system.
And this is very congruent
with a framework like NgRx or
Redux in that they
are basically event-based.
And so, I know, for instance, Mike Ryan,
who is one of the co-creators of NgRx,
he is a huge proponent of
before you write NgRx,
that you take the time
to understand how pieces
within the application
interact with each other.
And this is pertinent as well for
understanding control flow.
And so, if you look into my StackBlitz
examples, one of the last ones,
so this is seven,
has an event storming generator.
Which is, interestingly enough,
the idea that we generate a schema and
we generate our events.
So all I'm doing is I'm starting
to break these pieces out.
So in this case, we have a game and
you would ask yourself,
what should I be able
to do with this game?
Well, play a game, pause a game,
stop a game, reset a game, exit a game.
And so
this is where when you start ,and so
the initial kind of this question or
this request is,
how does this work or
what would this look like from
essentially idea conception to deployment?
And how I would take this is that I
would say, what are our entities?
And what do they do or
what can we do with them?
So what is the thing and
what can you do with it?
Well, in this case, I have a game,
and I have five events.
So I should be able to play a game,
reset a game, exit a game.
And I've isolated these events,
which, bit of surprise,
all I've done is just
dumped them onto the page,
as well as, ta-da, naming variations.
And because of that, now what I can do is
instead of generating a coarse-grained
template, which may be sufficient, but
the very next step in
my opinion would be to
generate action sets for
each individual event.
And so when I say action sets is that
you have NgRx actions, in this case.
And so you have the trigger event.
So if you've ever used any kind of effects
or Saga or something of that nature,
is that you have kind of this middleware
that handles your business logic and
your asynchronous operations.
Is that at the end of the day,
the concept is fairly simple,
that you have a trigger event that kicks
off this asynchronous middleware piece.
And then you have a completion event,
which is either going to be a success or
a failure event.
So with every event,
you have your trigger event,
so I wanna play a game,
playGameSuccess, playGameFailure.
Same thing here, pauseGame,
pauseGameSuccess, stopGame,
stopGameSuccess.
So you imagine I'm gonna stop the game,
there's some command, great,
we've stopped the game.
Cuz maybe you need to actually stop
it at the server, not uncommon.
But from here, you have, and
I'm going to open this into a new window.
I should just start
doing this as a default.
So notice we have trigger event,
completion event.
In our effects, and philosophically,
or I think this is really,
really close to how we would do in React,
that you have your trigger event,
playGame, and then you have your
completion event, so playGameSuccess.
It sends it on down the line,
playGameFailure,
then it does something else.
Pause trigger event, stop trigger event,
reset trigger event, perfect triad.
But now, once you have a completion event,
that needs to go into a reducer.
And so now, I am generating kind
of the trappings of reducer logic,
I would put the entity stuff in here,
eventually, if I were to flesh this out.
But now, playGamesSuccess,
playGameFailure, pauseGameSuccess,
pauseGameFailure.
And you'll notice here,
that on the failure events,
I'm simply delegating out to a generic
standalone failure function.
And what we can do is we
can take this individual or
just the reducer logic, and then we can
wrap this in the full generated reducer.
And so let's see what this
looks like in the code.
So I have generateCode, which is,
it takes a generator, events, entity,
and config, and
big surprise, events.reduce.
I'm generating, I'm sending in the event,
yay, and it's all the same stuff.
It's turtles all the way
down every single time.
Now a full reducer, what I'm doing is,
I'm generating the logic,
and then I'm calling
ReducerGenerator.generate, and
I'm passing that in to be wrapped.
And maybe if I thought about this a bit
more, I possibly would do something.
Maybe this could be improved upon.
More importantly is I think
this illustrates the point.
And so if I go into the generators,
let's look at our reducer generator.
So here, reducer logic,
I'm just iterating over the events and
Again, this is, at this point,
when you see the shape,
I'm not surprised if you're like, yeah,
that again, mashed potatoes for
dinner again, urgh.
Because if I took out,
This bit right here,
And this is going to get very angry for
a moment.
This looks like pretty
much every generator
that I've written,
is that it takes some stuff,
it does some stuff, and
then it returns a string.
Even here, with the build name variations,
very, very conventional.
And so this is really, really important,
at the risk of tipping over into tedium or
like, my God, we're watching
the same movie over and over,
is that this is a non-trivial piece
of code that we've generated.
But all we've done is iterate it
off of some basic stuff over and
over and
over until we are generating an entire,
well, in this case, a couple layers
of state management code in NgRx.
So, you're welcome,
I really believe that
these are money printers.
And it's not uncommon for a client or
somebody to reach out and
say, hey, we need to build this thing.
And first of all, we need to
figure out what we're building and
then we need to build it quick.
And so the majority of our time,
the real value is figuring out what
we're building, and
then this part is easy, relatively so.
Because once you understand the domain
using Domain-Driven Design techniques,
and this is like a typical road
mapping discovery process,
that you understand, okay, these
are the actors, this is how they interact.
So this is the business logic and
this is the UIUX that we're
gonna need to accommodate this,
the underlying application structure
is very, very straightforward.
There's even been times
where we've accomplished,
we've been able to generate
the entire application.
And it would have actually
been inappropriate for
political reasons to actually
just trot out what we've done,
until our project champion actually
was in a position to show that.
And so there's times where
this has worked so fast,
we've actually had to actually
be coy about how far we were.
Because for us to be like, by the way,
we know it took your team nine months to
do it, but it's been nine days and we're
done, it's flipped to the other side.
Where we've had to actually
measure our delivery so
that we could protect ourstakeholders.
Hopefully, that answered that question
about we, from conception, how we do that,
is you understand the domain, the actors,
the actions, and then you can start
to generate that, which is where this
event generator StackBlitz came from.